Commands for Git Bash

mkdir name: create a directory.
cd name/name/...: enter a directory.
pwd: show the present directory.
cat filename: check the file.
touch filename: create a new file.
rm filename: delete the file.
ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "youremail@example.com": create SSH KEY.

git init: initialize empty Git repository in the present directory.
git add filename: submit the file to Index.
git commit -m "annotation": submit the file to Repository.
git status: check if another file hasn't been submitted.
git diff filename: check the difference between the present file with last one.
git log: check the history of committing.
git log -pretty=oneline: just like "git log" but only one line.
git log --graph --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit: log but can check branches deleted.
git reset --hard HEAD^: return to the last version.
git reset --hard HEAD^^: return to the the version before last.
...
git reset --hard HEAD~100: return to the version 100 versions before.
git reset --hard versionNum: return to the version with versionNum.
git reflog: check all the versionNum.
git restore filename: revoke the change of the file:
                      1.before add:
		        return to the version as Repository.
		      2.after add:
		        return to the first version after add.
git checkout -- filename: restore the file after deleted in the workspace.
git push origin branchname: submit the newest main to Github.
git push -u origin branchname: submit the main to Github (first time).
git branch --set-upstream branchname origin/branchname: set the link of the branch.
git pull: get the newest branch.
git remote: check your remote repo.
git remote -v: check your remote repo (with details).
git remote add origin yoururl: connect a local repo to github.
git clone yoururl: clone a github repo to your local repo.
git checkout -b branchname: create and switch to the new branch.
                            just like the two orders as follow:
                            1.git branch branchname (create) 
                            2.git checkout branchname (switch)
git checkout -b branchname origin/branchname: switch to the branch from the origin.
git branch: check all the branches and highlight the present branch.
git branch -d branchname: delete the branch.
git merge branchname: merge branch with the present one.
git merge --no-ff -m "annotation" branchname: merge but ban fast forward(won't lose                 
                                              barnch information).
git stash: hide the workspace of the present branch.
git stash list: check the workspace hidden.
git stash pop: restore the content in stash and delete it (2 orders).
               1.git stash apply (restore) 
               2.git stash drop (delete)

